.TH "IMGCAT" "1" "December 13, 2014" "imgcat User Manual" "meow"
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]imgcat\f[] \- cat, but for images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]imgcat\f[] [\f[B]\-w\f[] \f[I]COLS\f[]|\f[B]\-R\f[]] [\f[B]\-d\f[]
\f[I]MODE\f[]] [\f[I]options\f[]] \f[I]image.ext\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]imgcat\f[] prints images to your terminal screen.
Yes, indeed it does.
.PP
By default, the image is printed to the full width of the terminal, and
the image is printed at the colour depth detected for your terminal.
These can be overridden using \f[B]\-w\f[] or \f[B]\-R\f[] and
\f[B]\-d\f[], respectively.
.PP
\f[B]Make sure your \f[C]TERM\f[] environment variable is set to a
terminfo with the full capabilities of you terminal!\f[] See
\f[B]Troubleshooting\f[] if you\[aq]re having a problem with this.
.SS Options
.TP
.B \f[B]\-w\f[] \f[I]COLS\f[], \f[B]\-\-width\f[]=\f[I]COLS\f[]
Resize image to \f[I]COLS\f[] characters wide (maintaining aspect
ratio).
Does nothing if \f[B]\-\-no\-resize\f[] is provided.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-d\f[] \f[I]MODE\f[], \f[B]\-\-depth\f[]=\f[I]MODE\f[]
Explicitly set the output color depth to one of \f[B]ansi\f[],
\f[B]8\f[] (alias of \f[B]ansi\f[]), or \f[B]256\f[].
If not provided, the output color depth will be inferred with
\f[C]tput\ colors\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-R\f[], \f[B]\-\-no\-resize\f[]
Does not resize the image to fit the terminal width.
Overrides \f[B]\-\-width\f[].
.RS
.RE
.SS Troubleshooting
.PP
First, test how many colors your terminal can output:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ tput\ colors
256
\f[]
.fi
.PP
If this is not what you expect, you might want to change your
\f[C]TERM\f[] environment variable.
For example, iTerm2 users will probably want the following:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ export\ TERM=xterm\-256color
\f[]
.fi
.PP
However, it\[aq]s better that your terminal emulator reports itself with
the proper value for \f[C]TERM\f[].
For iTerm2, again, look under the current profile settings > Terminal >
Terminal Emulation > and change "Report Terminal Type".
.SH BUGS
.PP
See GitHub Issues: <https://github.com/eddieantonio/imgcat/issues>
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
\f[B]imgcat\f[] was written by Eddie Antonio Santos
<http://eddieantonio.ca>.
